# Canvas-Dev-Resources

This repository will serve as a collection of resources that I have found useful as I'm learning more about developing customizations for the Canvas LMS. Before using any code that you find in this repository and/or linked from this repository, it is important that you understand how the code works and that you review it for security compliance with your organization's policies and test it to ensure it works as expected with your system.

***STANDARD DISCLAIMER FOR EXTERNAL LINKS***
External links to other sites outside of this repository are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by Code with Ski of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. Code with Ski bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.

## Developer Tools
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): This is currently my primary code editor. It is easy to set-up and get started programming in a variety of languages. Extensions can be installed to provide additional tools/features that help with development. ESLint, Prettier, and GitHub Pull Requests and Issues are some of the extensions I have found useful for web development.
- [GitHub](https://github.com/): This is integrated with Git and allows for easy back-up, version control, and sharing of code. It also makes it easy to follow other developers/organizations and review the code they have shared.
- [Postman](https://www.postman.com/): This is useful to use when getting started with making API calls. This helps with testing API calls and learning how to format requests. Environment variables are useful to easily save common settings needed for requests and change between beta/test servers and the production server. The Runner feature is useful when needing to perform bulk actions like publishing a list of courses. After getting an API call to work, it also provides code samples in various languages to help get started with writing your own scripts to perform the API calls.
- [Chrome Dev Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/): There are developer tools in each browser. Since I have been building a Chrome browser extension, I have primarily been using the Chrome Dev Tools. These tools provide a lot of benefits like being able to inspect the source code of web pages, being able to review network traffic, and helping to test/debug your code.

## Documentation
- [Canvas LMS REST API Documentation](https://canvas.instructure.com/doc/api/index.html): This provides details about the supported API calls for Canvas LMS. This is essential when trying to build customizations for the Canvas LMS that are based on data from Canvas, especially if it isn't easily accessible in the GUI.
- [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/): This documentaiton provides details and interactive examples for HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. This comes in handy as you are learning web development and/or need to review a topic. There are training guides to help with getting started in web development. It also provides details about supported browsers for different language features.
- [Chrome for Developers - Extensions Documentation](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/): This documentation is useful for learning about developing browser extensions for Chrome.

## Canvas Community Resources
- [Canvas Developer Group](https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Canvas-Developers-Group/gh-p/developers): This group is especially help when developing scripts/programs that involve the Canvas LMS. There are a lot of past questions, discussions, and blog posts that help to review, especially if you are running into errors or unexplained behavior with your own scripts/programs that involve the Canvas LMS. If you don't see your question/issue already posted, you can post your own question and see if someone from the Community can help point you in the right direction. This is also a good place to look for new scripts that Community members share and a place that you can share your scripts with others.
- [Canvas Admin Group](https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Canvas-Admin-Discussion/bd-p/admin_discussion): This group is useful to interact with admins of Canvas LMS systems. Based on conversations, you can sometimes identify features that would be useful to administrators if they existed. Some Community members also share their completed scripts/programs here if it is delivered in a user friendly format that Canvas Admins (not necessarily developers) may find useful.
- [Canvas Ideas and Themes](https://community.canvaslms.com/t5/Canvas-Ideas-and-Themes/ct-p/canvas-ideas-themes?tab=identified): This is a great place to learn about features users are requesting. Reviewing these ideas has inspired some of the features I have developed in my browser extension and some of the customizations other community members have developed. While the hope is that Canvas will eventually develop these ideas, it is useful to have a workaround when possible until it is developed natively. This is also where you will need to go if you come up with ideas for new features for the Canvas LMS, especially if it is dependent on changes that have to be made by Canvas/Instructure (i.e. changes to the API, more granular permissions, etc.)
